Question: The art of getting things done by others is?
Answer: Management 游릭

Question: Administration is a function?
Answer: Determinative 游릭

Question: Management is a function?
Answer: Executing 游릭

Question: Administration is a function?
Answer: Decision making 游릭

Question: Management is a function?
Answer: Both A&B 游릭

Question: Administration is a function?
Answer: Both A&B 游릭

Question: Management requires skills?
Answer: Technical skills and human skills 游릭

Question: Administration requires skills?
Answer: Conceptual Skills 游릭

Question: Management is level function?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: The principle of states that an individual should receive orders from and report to only one Superior?
Answer: Unity of command 游릭

Question: Which of the following does not include in the 14 principles of Henry Fayol?
Answer: Creativity 游릭

Question: Principle says that, A subordinate should follow the line of authority?
Answer: Scalar chain 游릭

Question: Which among the following Henry Fayol's principle is most essential to maintain unity and avoid friction among the workers?
Answer: Subordination of individial interest to general interest 游릭

Question: Guide the worker is a function of?
Answer: Foremen 游릭

Question: Supervisor comes under?
Answer: Lower level management 游릭

Question: The Production manager belongs to level management?
Answer: Middle 游릭

Question: The Managing Director belongs to level Management?
Answer: Top 游릭

Question: The board of directors belong to level management?
Answer: Top 游릭

Question: Overall management of Goals and Objectives will be handled by?
Answer: Top Level Manager 游릭

Question: The board of directors belong to level management?
Answer: Top 游릭

Question: Oxides of nitrogen and Sulphur are the pollutants for pollution?
Answer: Air 游릭

Question: Imbalance in air quality is the phenomina of?
Answer: Air pollution 游릭

Question: Burning fuels is caused to pollution?
Answer: Air 游릭

Question: Agricultural runoff containing pesticides and fertilisers caused for pollution?
Answer: Water 游릭

Question: Cholera, Gastroenteritis, Jaundice, Malaria etc. are caused by?
Answer: Polluted water 游릭

Question: Degradation of fertile lands is the phenomenon of?
Answer: Land contamination 游릭

Question: Loss of fertile land for cultivation can be caused by?
Answer: Effect of soil pollution 游릭

Question: Warming up of the earth's surface due to blanketing effect caused by the presence of certain gases in the atmosphere is known as?
Answer: Global warming 游릭

Question: The action or process of clearing forest?
Answer: Deforestation 游릭

Question: The surroundings in which the organization operates which includes the air, water, land, plant and animal life, humans and the interaction of the all the above?
Answer: Environment 游릭

Question: Is any change that occurs in the environment either positively or negatively?
Answer: Environmental impact 游릭

Question: Is defined as the element of the organization's activities that can interact with the environment?
Answer: Environment aspect 游릭

Question: SIS is?
Answer: Significant Impact Study 游릭

Question: EMS stands for?
Answer: Environment Management System 游릭

Question: Undesired circumstances which give rise to ill-health or injury is called as?
Answer: Accident 游릭

Question: Undesired circumstances which damage to property, plant, products or the environment is called as?
Answer: Accident 游릭

Question: Undesired circumstances and 'near misses' which could cause accidents is?
Answer: Incident 游릭

Question: The potential to cause harm is?
Answer: Hazard 游릭

Question: Fire is a?
Answer: Hazard 游릭

Question: Abbreviation of OHSAS?
Answer: Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series 游릭

Question: Out of the following which is not a direct loss?
Answer: Loss of time taken to attend him 游릭

Question: Out of the following which is a direct loss?
Answer: Employer to pay for medical charges 游릭

Question: Which is the latest family or standard of OHSAS?
Answer: 45001 游릭

Question: Which is not a hazard among the following?
Answer: Electrocution 游릭

Question: Is the fitness for the purpose at the lowest cost and quality of any product is regarded as the degree to which it fulfils the requirement of customer?
Answer: Quality 游릭

Question: Is defined as a process used for controlling and checking the quality of a product to the laid quality standards?
Answer: Inspection 游릭

Question: Purpose of Inspection is?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: Benefit of Inspection is?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: A QC tool which is a structured form of collecting and analyzing data is called as?
Answer: Check sheet 游릭

Question: A QC tool that separates data gathered from a variety of sources is called as?
Answer: Stratification 游릭

Question: Chart prioritizes major problem based on frequency of occurrence?
Answer: Pareto 游릭

Question: A scatter diagram shows the between two variables in a process?
Answer: Correlation 游릭

Question: Shows that when a process measure is exhibiting abnormal behavior?
Answer: Control Chart 游릭

Question: Is a graphical device to aid in process control?
Answer: Control Chart 游릭

Question: Is a tool that helps identify, sort, and display possible causes of a specific problem or quality characteristics?
Answer: Fish bone diagram 游릭

Question: Is a technique used to divide the data in to sub-categories or classification to provide useful insight into the problem?
Answer: Stratification 游릭

Question: It is called when statistical techniques are employed to control quality or to solve quality control problems?
Answer: SQC 游릭

Question: If the number of defective parts exceeds a predefined level, the lot is rejected. It is inspection?
Answer: Sampling 游릭

Question: The applications of statistical methods to the measurement & analysis of variation in any process is called as?
Answer: SPC 游릭

Question: Is a process which is used to show that the ISO system is working properly and to give information to the management for a review?
Answer: Internal audit 游릭

Question: Is a five-step process to improve workplace efficiency through housekeeping methods?
Answer: 5S 游릭

Question: Sorting of tools are at stage of in 5S?
Answer: 1S 游릭

Question: Seiri means?
Answer: Sorting 游릭

Question: Seisso is?
Answer: Shining 游릭

Question: Seiketsu is?
Answer: Standardization 游릭

Question: Shadow board (Tool arrangement board) is an example of S?
Answer: 2S 游릭

Question: Means change for better?
Answer: Kaizen 游릭

Question: Concept can eliminate both human and mechanical errors in manufacturing?
Answer: Pokayoke 游릭

Question: Odd-Part-Out-Method is an example for?
Answer: Pokayoke 游릭

Question: Re design of symmetry is an example for?
Answer: Pokayoke 游릭

Question: TPS was developed by the engineer named as?
Answer: Ishikawa 游릭

Question: TPS is meant for?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: System avoids over production?
Answer: Pull 游릭

Question: Levelling the production by using tool?
Answer: Heijunka 游릭

Question: TPS Principle says, make decisions?
Answer: Slowly 游릭

Question: Lean manufacturing is a methodology that focuses on waste?
Answer: Minimize 游릭

Question: Lean management productivity?
Answer: Maximizing 游릭

Question: Elimination of waste + Reduction of Variability =?
Answer: Creation of value 游릭

Question: Any activity that physically changes the material being?
Answer: Value added activity 游릭

Question: Milling is considered as activity in lean?
Answer: Value added activity 游릭

Question: Painting is activity as per lean management?
Answer: Value added activity 游릭

Question: Any activity that does not physically change the material is called?
Answer: Non value added 游릭

Question: Sorting is activity as per lean?
Answer: Non value added 游릭

Question: Counting is activity as per lean?
Answer: Non value added 游릭

Question: Inspection is activity as per lean?
Answer: Non value added 游릭

Question: Lean management is helpful for?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: Any activity that consumes resources, but creates no value for the customer is?
Answer: Muda 游릭

Question: Variation in the operation of a process not caused by the end customer is?
Answer: Mura 游릭

Question: Overburden on equipment caused by mura and muda is?
Answer: Muri 游릭

Question: Processing the product before it is required is a waste as per lean?
Answer: Over production 游릭

Question: Over production leads to?
Answer: Both of the above 游릭

Question: The lean waste "Waiting" is caused by?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: Doing more work than necessary is?
Answer: Over processing 游릭

Question: Which among the following is not a lean tool?
Answer: FMEA 游릭

Question: VSM is used to?
Answer: Stream the value 游릭

Question: SMED is used to?
Answer: reduce the set up time 游릭

Question: Heijunka is used to the production?
Answer: Level out 游릭

Question: Which among the following is not a lean management objective?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: Producing the right component part at the right time and at the right place is?
Answer: JIT 游릭

Question: Which among the following is not benefitted by JIT?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: TPM is?
Answer: Total Productive Maintenance 游릭

Question: TPM Ensures?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: TPM focusing on?
Answer: Maintenance of Equipments 游릭

Question: TPM Ensures?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: As per TPM philosophy, human accidents are?
Answer: 0 游릭

Question: As per TPM philosophy, production costs are reduced to?
Answer: 30% 游릭

Question: As per TPM philosophy, reduction in defects in process: to?
Answer: 1/10 游릭

Question: As per TPM philosophy, reduction in product inventories?
Answer: 50% 游릭

Question: After introduction of activity, operators take care of machines by themselves without being ordered to?
Answer: autonomous maintenance 游릭

Question: As per TPM Principle, who will be participating in maintenance activity?
Answer: All of the above 游릭

Question: "individually preserving one's own equipment" is the concept of?
Answer: Jishu Hosen 游릭

Question: JH Piller is?
Answer: Autonomous maintenance 游릭

Question: Is the foundation of TPM pillars?
Answer: 5S 游릭

Question: 1st step of JH is?
Answer: Initial cleaning 游릭

Question: Kobetsu Kaizen is?
Answer: Focused Improvement 游릭

Question: Pillar of TPM improves MTTR and MTBF?
Answer: Planned Maintenance 游릭

Question: MTTR is?
Answer: Mean Time To Repair 游릭

Question: MTBF is?
Answer: Mean Time Between Failures 游릭

Question: OEE is?
Answer: Overall Equipment Efficiency 游릭

Question: OEE IS?
Answer: A x P x Q 游릭

Question: Is the ratio of Fully Productive Time to Planned Production Time?
Answer: OEE 游릭

Question: Pieces that are manufactured without any defects are called?
Answer: Good Count 游릭

Question: The theoretical fastest possible time to manufacture one piece is called?
Answer: Ideal Cycle Time 游릭

Question: The total time the production asset is scheduled for production is called?
Answer: Planned Production Time 游릭

Question: Producing only good pieces, as fast as possible, with no stop time is called?
Answer: Fully Productive Time 游릭

Question: TQM stands for?
Answer: Total Quality Management 游릭

Question: Which one of the following comes under 6 C's of TQM?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: For the average company, the cost of quality is about of total sales?
Answer: 0.25 游릭

Question: Which one of the following comes under cost of the product?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: Pareto principle is also known as rule?
Answer: 80-20 游릭

Question: Which one of the following is a core tool in TQM?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: In control charts, Generally as a thumb rule control limits established is % of permissible tolerance?
Answer: 0.6 游릭

Question: APQP stands for?
Answer: Advance Product Quality Planning 游릭

Question: DFMEA stands for?
Answer: Design Failure Mode Effective Analysis 游릭

Question: PFMEA stands for?
Answer: Process Failure Mode Effective Analysis 游릭

Question: PPAP stands for?
Answer: Production Part Approval Process 游릭

Question: Mention the major activity in APQP?
Answer: All the above 游릭

Question: How many major elements are there in APQP?
Answer: 7 游릭

Question: Job evaluation is the method of determining the?
Answer: Relative worth of jobs 游릭

Question: The refers to the activities involved in introducing new employees to the organization and its policies, procedures, rules and regulations?
Answer: Orientation 游릭

Question: The is the ability to imagine or invent something new?
Answer: Creativity 游릭

Question: The difference procedural steps involved in the selection process are?
Answer: ALL 游릭

Question: The type of leaders drive their workers through command and by developing fear in them?
Answer: Authoritarian 游릭

Question: The leaders who always work according to the wishes of their followers?
Answer: Democratic Leaders 游릭

Question: Which leaders obtain position by virtue of their ability, experience and association with the organization?
Answer: Administrative leaders 游릭

Question: Which types of leaders influence his followers due to their personal contacts, to join with them in getting the things done?
Answer: Persuasive Leaders 游릭

Question: Which types of leaders obtain this position by virtue of their ability, experience and association with the organization?
Answer: Administrative leaders 游릭

Question: One of quality of a good leader?
Answer: ALL 游릭

Question: The process of creating something new is?
Answer: Innovation 游릭

Question: Which of the following is not a stage of team development?
Answer: Deciding 游릭

Question: A group of people working with common objectives or goals is known as a?
Answer: Team 游릭

Question: The cumulative action of a team in which an individual member keeps aside his/her interests and opinions to fulfill the objectives or goal of the group is known as?
Answer: Team work 游릭

Question: Which of the following is not a benefit of teamwork?
Answer: Decline in integration 游릭

Question: Employee's welfare facilities?
Answer: a&b 游릭

Question: Worker's participation in management may take many terms example?
Answer: a & b 游릭

Question: Formal participation of worker's?
Answer: union 游릭

Question: Types of worker's participation?
Answer: a & b 游릭

Question: Development of semi automatic & automatic equipment?
Answer: spoiling union and management relation 游릭

Question: Go slow is a type of?
Answer: both a and b 游릭

Question: Gherao is done by?
Answer: workers 游릭
Question: The trade union act came into existence in?
Answer: 1953游릭
Question: The maternity benefit act came in to existence in?
Answer: 1961游릭
Question: The Trade unions are formed in order to regulate the?
Answer: relation between workers and employer游릭
Question: A person below 18 years of age is called as?
Answer: minor游릭
Question: According to factory act, provision was made for?
Answer: insurance of employee游릭
Question: An adult is a person who has completed?
Answer: 18 years游릭
Question: According to factory act, the canteen facility was to be provided in a factory that contained?
Answer: more than 500 workers游릭
Question: Provision of creches at the factory was made in which of the following act?
Answer: factory act游릭
Question: The payment of wages act, 1936 amended in?
Answer: 1982游릭
Question: Deduction from wage of employee for?
Answer: all the above游릭
Question: Total fine shall not be more than an amount equal to % of the wages to an employee?
Answer: 0.03游릭
Question: The minimum wage may consist of?
Answer: a & b游릭
Question: The minimum wages act is made in?
Answer: 1948游릭
Question: The workmen's compensation act, 1923 is amended in?
Answer: 1986游릭
Question: The amount of compensation depends upon the result of the injury and the?
Answer: a & b游릭
Question: The employer is liable to compensate if?
Answer: all the above游릭
Question: Employer's liability in case of occupational decease?
Answer: silicosis to foundary workmen游릭
Question: Amount of compensation in case of death?
Answer: 40% of the monthly wages游릭
Question: Employee state insurance 1948 is amended in?
Answer: 1989游릭
Question: ESI act provides provides the these benefit?
Answer: a&b游릭
Question: Expansion of PF?
Answer: provident fund游릭
Question: Amount of PF deduction per month?
Answer: 0.12游릭
Question: PF is organisation?
Answer: government游릭
