Instructions:
I've noted down the questions and answers you provided.
Whenever i ask you a MCQ (multiple-choice question), you must use this source to help you find the correct answer.
If the answer is in the provided source, I'll mark it with a green dot (🟢).
If the answer is not in the provided source and I use my own knowledge, I'll mark it with a red dot (🔴).
i will provide the source in 2 parts due to its larger lenth

POWER ELECTRONICS QUESTIONS source: 
its part 1
The formate is ques:ans
Que: What additional change is made in SCR to get the SCS?
Ans: Add another external terminal to SCR
Que: Which configuration modifies SCR into SCS by adding extra terminal to?
Ans: connected to the base of the top transistor
Que: The turn-off time of SCS lies in the range of?
Ans: 1 to 10 micro-sec
Que: Maximum allowed anode current in a SCS ranges from?
Ans: 100 mA to 300 mA
Que: Due to which commutation an extra terminal allows more control over the device?
Ans: Forced Commutation
Que: How many terminals does a DIAC have?
Ans: 2
Que: DIAC is?
Ans: bidirectional device
Que: DIAC can act as?
Ans: an AC switch
Que: A normal way to turn-on a DIAC is by?
Ans: Break-over voltage
Que: Breakdown voltage of a DIAC is?
Ans: 30 volt
Que: How many layers of semiconductor does DIAC have?
Ans: 4
Que: How many minimum thyristors make up a TRIAC?
Ans: 2
Que: TRIAC can act as?
Ans: an AC switch
Que: Number of doped regions present in a TRIAC?
Ans: 6
Que: How many layers of semiconductor does TRIAC have?
Ans: 4
Que: How many terminals does a TRIAC have?
Ans: 3
Que: How many terminals are there in UJT?
Ans: 3
Que: The terminals of UJT are:
Ans: Emitter, Base1, Base2
Que: UJT is mainly used for?
Ans: on-off switching device
Que: A UJT has?
Ans: One PN junction
Que: UJT may be used as?
Ans: a sawtooth generator
Que: The P-type emitter of an UJT is....doped?
Ans: Heavily
Que: Which type of material is the channel of a UJT made up of?
Ans: N-type
Que: Inverter converts ________ to AC?
Ans: DC
Que: DC to AC conversion is performed by?
Ans: Inverter
Que: The use of transistor in inverter circuit?
Ans: Reduces the efficiency
Que: Classification of inverter is?
Ans: all the above
Que: Cross over distortion in an inverter is caused due to?
Ans: Switching transistor
Que: The main objective of DC to AC converters is to obtain?
Ans: AC waveform from DC power supply
Que: Cross over distortion can be minimized in inverter by using?
Ans: biasing diode
Que: 1-ф half bridge inverter contains _____ number of switches?
Ans: 2
Que: 1-ф full bridge inverter contains _____ number of switches?
Ans: 4
Que: In 1-ф full bridge inverter an advantage of unipolar switching is?
Ans: Doubling of switching frequency
Que: For a 1-ф full bridge inverter fed from 48 V DC with load resistance of 2.4 ohm, the RMS value of an output voltage is?
Ans: 43 V
Que: Compared to a 1-ф half bridge inverter, the output power of full bridge inverter is?
Ans: high by a factor of 4
Que: Voltage source inverter means that an input power of an inverter is?
Ans: DC Voltage
Que: 1-ф voltage source inverter are mainly used in?
Ans: all the above
Que: VSI stands for?
Ans: Voltage Source Inverter
Que: The oldest and commonly used inverter topology is?
Ans: Push-Pull
Que: Which inverter creates less noise?
Ans: Push-Pull
Que: Output voltage in 1ф half bridge inverter is?
Ans: Vs/2
Que: Output voltage in 1ф full bridge inverter is?
Ans: Vs
Que: In 1-ф full bridge inverter the output waveform is?
Ans: both square and quasi-square
Que: For what purpose transistor is used in Push-Pull inverter?
Ans: Switching
Que: In 3 ф bridge inverter number of switches are?
Ans: 6
Que: A 3 ф inverter with 180 degree conduction mode the number switches that is ON at any instant of time is?
Ans: 3
Que: How many minimum numbers of switching device is required in 3 ф bridge inverter?
Ans: 6
Que: In 3 ф safe commutation can be achieved in case of the....... Operating mode?
Ans: 120 degree
Que: In 3 ф bridge inverter in 120 degree mode of operation.....devices conduct at a time?
Ans: 2
Que: If input voltage is Vs, then Output voltage of 3 ф inverter in 180 degree mode is?
Ans: 2Vs/3
Que: In 3 ф bridge inverter, each step consists of?
Ans: 60 degree
Que: _________ converts fixed AC into variable AC?
Ans: AC voltage controller
Que: Input and output frequency of AC voltage controller is same?
Ans: TRUE
Que: Main application of AC voltage converter?
Ans: all the above
Que: Which voltage does AC voltage Control Change?
Ans: RMS voltage
Que: In which of the following both frequency and voltage can be controlled?
Ans: inverter and cycloconverter
Que: AC to AC conversion is done by?
Ans: Cycloconverter
Que: In the principle of phase control?
Ans: is achieved by adjusting the firing angle of the devices
Que: Using thyristor to turn on and off results in?
Ans: decreases harmonics
Que: The thyristor switching is used in AC voltage controller where?
Ans: speed control of AC motor is required
Que: Triggering thyristor alternately results in?
Ans: bidirectional current flow
Que: A single-phase half wave voltage controller consists of?
Ans: one SCR is anti parallel with one diode
Que: In half wave voltage controller, _______ number SCR used?
Ans: 1
Que: In full wave voltage controller, ______ number SCR used?
Ans: 2
Que: How many thyristors are used in 1-phase bidirectional AC voltage controller with R-load?
Ans: 2
Que: Arrangement of thyristor in 1-phase AC voltage controller with R-load?
Ans: anti-parallel
Que: During negative half cycle in AC voltage controller with R-load?
Ans: thyristor 2 conducts
Que: During negative half cycle in AC voltage controller with R-load, the output waveform lies between?
Ans: π and 2π






its part 2:
Que: A practical load consist of?
Ans: resistive and inductive
Que: Arrangement of thyristor in 1-phase AC voltage controller with RL-load?
Ans: anti-parallel
Que: During positive half cycle in AC voltage controller with RL-load, the output waveform lies between?
Ans: 0 and π
Que: During negative half cycle in AC voltage controller with RL-load?
Ans: both the SCR conducts
Que: An inductor starts discharging in AC voltage controller in RL-load configuration while?
Ans: negative half cycle
Que: An inductor starts charging in AC voltage controller in RL-load configuration while?
Ans: positive half cycle
Que: Most common application of AC voltage controller is speed control of?
Ans: Universal motor
Que: Universal motor is operated on?
Ans: Both AC and DC voltage
Que: At no load condition the universal motor will run at?
Ans: maximum speed
Que: What are the different mechanism of speed control of universal motor?
Ans: Resistive method
Que: Field Tapping method is used to control speed of?
Ans: Universal motor
Que: In which method the speed of universal motor is controlled by varying the field?
Ans: Field Tapping method
Que: Which material is used in a resistance that is wound over one of the field poles in field tapping method?
Ans: Nickel
Que: In controlling the speed of the motor in sewing machine which method is used?
Ans: Resistance method
Que: Cycloconverter changes?
Ans: frequency
Que: To create difference between input and output frequency _____is used?
Ans: cycloconverter
Que: Cyclo-converters are commonly used in?
Ans: Variable frequency drives
Que: A cycloconverter is a?
Ans: one stage frequency converter
Que: Applications of cycloconverters include?
Ans: all of the mentioned
Que: A cycloconverter fed induction motor drive is most suitable for which one of the following?
Ans: machine tool drive
Que: Which of the following options represents change and control voltage magnitude and frequency both?
Ans: AC-AC cycloconversion
Que: An advantage of a cycloconverter is?
Ans: load commutation is possible
Que: Cycloconverter drives are generally employed in?
Ans: generating low frequencies
Que: The widely used cycloconverter is?
Ans: step-down
Que: Which commutation method is used in step down cycloconverter?
Ans: Natural commutation
Que: The single phase mid-point type cycloconverter uses __________ number of SCRs?
Ans: 4
Que: The single phase bridge type cycloconverter uses __________ number of SCRs?
Ans: 8
Que: An inter-group reactor is used in a single phase cycloconverter circuit to?
Ans: limit circulating current
Que: In single phase cycloconverter the output frequency is.........of the input frequency?
Ans: one-fourth
Que: The quality of an output AC voltage of a cycloconverter is improved with?
Ans: [Answer not provided in the source document]
Que: In single phase cycloconverter for the positive half cycle from ωt = 0 to π, thyristor?
Ans: P1 and N2 are forward biased
Que: How many switches are used to construct a three phase cycloconverter?
Ans: 18
Que: To minimize the magnitude of harmonic components in a single phase cycloconverter generally uses?
Ans: three phase input supply
Que: If one of the SCR fails in three phase cycloconverter it operates with?
Ans: distorted output
Que: To get minimum harmonic distortion in the output, a 3-phase cycloconverter requires?
Ans: 36 SCRs
Que: In which converter the power transfer is possible from supply load and vice versa at any power factor?
Ans: three-phase cycloconverter
Que: A cycloconverter is operating at 50Hz supply. The range of output frequency that can be obtained with better quality is?
Ans: 0-128 Hz
Que: EMI is produced due to?
Ans: both electricity and magnetism
Que: EMI stands for?
Ans: Electromagnetic Interference
Que: Any electrical signal present in a circuit other than the desired signal is known as?
Ans: all of these
Que: A moving magnetic field produces?
Ans: both an electric current and a flow of charge
Que: Which of the following phenomenon produces an EMI?
Ans: both a television attached to projector and a cell phone placed near laptop
Que: Lightning of light produces?
Ans: strong electrostatic discharges
Que: EMI can be caused due to?
Ans: Both Malfunctioning and Improper design of electronic devices
Que: High frequency EMI source is?
Ans: all of these
Que: The man made noise sources is / are?
Ans: all of these
Que: Which of the following statement is true about EMC?
Ans: ability of not affecting other equipment in same environment.
Que: EMC is the concept of enabling different?
Ans: electronics devices to operate without mutual interference
Que: EMC stands for...?
Ans: Electromagnetic compatibility
Que: EMC is involved in?
Ans: electromagnetic environment
Que: Electronics devices are susceptible to catch?
Ans: unwanted electrical signals
Que: The ability of an electronic system to function properly in its electromagnetic environment is known as?
Ans: Electromagnetic compatibility
Que: The effects of EMI can be reduced by?
Ans: all of these
Que: Which of the following technique is used for prevention of EMI?
Ans: Shielding and grounding
Que: Possible ways to minimize the EMI?
Ans: all of these
Que: Which one of the following is the most cost-effective way of prevention of EMI?
Ans: Shielding and grounding
Que: Which of the following technique is used for better grounding?
Ans: use multiple grounding points
Que: Why shielding is important?
Ans: to minimize EMI
Que: EMI shielding uses...to prevent EMI?
Ans: Faradays's cage
Que: The material used in Faraday's cage is?
Ans: copper
Que: How to reduce EMI between analog and digital devices?
Ans: maintain separate ground
Que: Grounding the devices helps to achieve?
Ans: Both safety and EMC
Que: How many fundamental stages are there in an inverter circuit?
Ans: four
Que: DC Power source comes in..........stage of an inverter?
Ans: First
Que: Role of an oscillator is to convert?
Ans: DC to AC
Que: Duty cycle of astable multivibrator?
Ans: remains constant
Que: An output of astable multivibrator is?
Ans: Constant frequency
Que: What type of DC power source is used in an inverter?
Ans: Any one of the above
Que: The final stage of an inverter circuit contains?
Ans: Transformer
Que: Instead of an oscillator which alternative circuit can be used?
Ans: Multivibrator
Que: The heart of an inverter circuit is?
Ans: Oscillator
Que: Driving stage of an inverter includes?
Ans: Power MOSFET
Que: The driving stage can be directly controlled by?
Ans: Microcontroller
Que: The Frequency of transistor based Astable multivibrator is given by?
Ans: F = 1 / 1.38 x R x C
Que: An output of an inverter depends on?
Ans: all the above
Que: Which of the following configurations increases the power output of an inverter?
Ans: Four MOSFETs in parallel
Que: An inverter gives stable output in the frequency range of?
Ans: 50 Hz to 60 Hz
Que: Role of fuse in an inverter circuit is to protect?
Ans: DC battery
